# persistent_homology_of_entanglement
The main notebook to look at in this repo is [persistent_homology_of_entanglement](https://github.com/Amelie-Schreiber/persistent_homology_of_entanglement/blob/main/persistent_homology_of_entanglement.ipynb). Please review this notebook and try running it before any of the others. Also try running the notebooks [bifiltrations_of_entanglement](https://github.com/Amelie-Schreiber/persistent_homology_of_entanglement/blob/main/bifiltrations_of_entanglement.ipynb), and [bifiltrations_of_entanglement_2](https://github.com/Amelie-Schreiber/persistent_homology_of_entanglement/blob/main/bifiltrations_of_entanglement_2.ipynb) and [persistent_homology_of_random_graph_states](https://github.com/Amelie-Schreiber/persistent_homology_of_entanglement/blob/main/persistent_homology_of_random_graph_states.ipynb) for low numbers of qubits to see some visualizations. The two notebooks implement much of the following paper [Persistent homology of quantum entanglement](https://arxiv.org/abs/2110.10214) starting from (perturbed) graph states with controlled random unitary matrix gates as entangling gates between qubits. 

Dividing the quantum circuit into time-steps and computing the reduced density matrix operator for each time step allows us to construct a weighted interaction graph, where the weights are given by the (1) The inverse quantum mutual information, (2) von Neumann entanglement entropy, or (3) the two-qubit gate count, between each pair of qubits. By considering the  quantum mutual information as a parameter (technically its additive inverse: 

$$d(\rho_i, \rho_j) = 2\ln(2)-M(\rho_i, \rho_j) = 2\ln(2) - (S(\rho_i) + S(\rho_j) - S(\rho_{ij}))$$

where $S(\rho)$ is the von Neumann entanglement entropy for the density matrix $\rho$), we obtain a bifiltration of the weighted interaction graph, where discrete time is the second parameter.

This bifiltration can be used to compute the 2-parameter persistent homology of the weighted interaction graph. The first parameter is time, and the second parameter is the inverse quantum mutual information. The persistent homology captures the topological features of the interaction graph that persist across different time-steps and inverse QMI values.

The 2-parameter persistent homology of the weighted interaction graph can be used to study the evolution in "time" of the entanglement structure of the quantum circuit. This can provide insights into the quantum information processing that is happening in the circuit, and can help us understand the role of entanglement in quantum computation. This can again be utilized in understanding and improving the transpiling process, especially when hardware backend constraints are topological in nature. This can also be used to study phase transitions in condensed matter physics, as well as the emergence of spacetime in from a quantum information theory perspective. 

Overall, computing the 2-parameter persistent homology of a bifiltration constructed from a quantum circuit can be a useful tool for studying the entanglement structure of the circuit and gaining insights into the quantum information processing that is happening. We can then use [Gudhi](https://gudhi.inria.fr/python/latest/) and/or [Rivet](https://github.com/rivetTDA/rivet). It would also be a very interesting problem both mathematically and physically to see a complete study of how these interaction graphs change based on the chosen basis gate set or how transpiling circuits effects the persistent homology. This can then be used as a topological feature for learning to classify quantum circuits via their interaction graph, where the interaction graph is the weighted graph obtained from the (inverse) quantum mutual inforation distance matrix. The classification can be performed with respect to ASIC or hardware backend requirements. 
